# Portcast Assignment

## Description

This project is a React application that provides a user interface for viewing and interacting with cryptocurrency data. It includes features such as displaying a list of cryptocurrencies, marking favorites, and daily price average.

## Tech Stack
  - React 
  - TypeScript
  - Shadcn (component library)
  - Tailwind CSS
  - Tanstack Router (for nvaigation & routing)
  - Zustand (for state management)
  - Jest, React Testing Library
  - Chart.Js 

## Installation

To get started with this project, follow these steps:

1. **Clone the repository**:

    ```sh
    git clone https://github.com/ankitkarnak/portcast-assignment.git
    cd portcast-assignment
    ```

2. **Install dependencies**:

    ```sh
    pnpm install
    ```

## Usage

To run the application locally, use the following command:

```sh
pnpm run dev
```

This will start the development server, and you can view the application in your browser at `http://localhost:5173`.

## Features

- Table Page:
  - Crptocurrentcy data in table
  - pagination
  - sorting (clicking on table coulmn header)
  - real time updates of pricing using websocket
  - Add or revome from favourites
  - Bonus: UI indicating increase or decrease in current price.

- Crypto Details
  - Details of crypto clicked.
  - graph showcasing last 30 days daily avg price

- Testing
  - added few test cases using Jest & react Testing library


## Project Structure
```
src/
  components/
    ui/
      button.tsx
      table.tsx
    crypto-table/
      favourite-cell.tsx
      favourite-cell.test.tsx
      data-table.tsx
  routes/
    details/
      $id.tsx
    index.tsxs
    __root.tsx
  services/
    coincap.ts
  stores/
    crypto-table.stores.ts
  utils/
    functions.utils.ts
    transformers.utils.ts
  main.tsx
  routeTree.gen.ts
  other config files
```

  - **components/**: Contains the React components used in the application.
  - **ui/**: Contains Shadcn generated components.
  - **crypto-table/**: Contains components used to display the cryptocurrency table.
  
- **main.tsx**: The entry point of the application.

- **routeTree.gen.ts**: Contains the route configuration for the application. This is auto-generated by TanStack Router based on files inside the `pages` folder.

- **routes/**: Contains file-based routing.

- **utils/**: Contains utility files.

- **stores/**: Contains Zustand stores used for state management.

  ## Testing
To run the tests for this project, use the following command:

```
pnpm run test
```
